---
layout: post
title:
excerpt:
category:
- Climbing
tags:
comments: true
---

#### Anaerobic - Alactic:

Power and reflexes!  This energy system is primarily responsible for short burst actions.  That is, those that rely on Creatine Phosphate for 
their energy supply.  In simple terms, actions taking about 12 seconds or less.  In climbing terms; short, hard bouldering or crux route 
sequences.  If you're feeling pumped then you're *not* training power or strength (see below).  Intervals at this intensity require a rest:work 
ratio of anywhere from 10:1 to 20:1.  So, if a hard sequence take 10 seconds to comple, you should be resting anywhere from 90 seconds to 3 
minutes.

#### Anaerobic - Lactic:

This is the "strength endurance" system.  I put quotes there because this is the hardest system to train and what seems to happen is that the 
other two systems are getting trained and that improves the efficiency of this system.  That said, this is the most difficult system to train, 
but it also has the quickest progression (and regression).  Think about hangboard repeaters here.  This is where you get pumped.  This energy 
system will take you to an upper limit of about 2 minutes.  As stated in the podcast, you've got 2 minutes to finish that long boulder, or get 
from one rest to another on a route.  The difference for what "counts as a rest" depends on strength (see above).

More good information in the podcast comes from discussions about lactate.  That is, "lactic acid" isn't really a thing.  Lactate is, and 
Hydrogen ions are.  This was news to me as I hadn't really distinguished between "lactic acid build up" and DOMS (delayed onset muscle 
soreness); which I know now are not the same thing.  Lactate isnt bad, in fact, it fuels ATP production (that's the cellular energy we're using 
in this system).  However, the Hydrogen ions are bad as they cause a drop in your body's PH level -- making it more acidic.  Hence the burning 
pump.  There is great term referenced in the podcast -- "pump lust."  

It's not just climbers, people want to "feel like they worked."  Of course, there's a difference between training to get better and getting sweaty just to be tired.

#### Aerobic:

This energy system is used for interbvals over 2 minutes.  It can take you up to several hours, but Horst recommends 10 minute intervals.  The 
rationale is simple, the system needs to be taked enough to force adaptation.  So, how much capacity / work can you fit in to that 10 minute 
window.  The numbers cited in the podcast are somewhere between 70 and 85% of your max.  So, if you climb V10 that's V8, if you climb V5 then a 
softish V4.  With that information, the goal is a "controlled pump" rather than a "blistering, I'm about to fall" pump.  You should notice that 
it's taking some effort to maintain, but you're not getting "winded."

Also of note fom the podcast is that **all recovery is aerobic**.  So, this kind of "general conditioning" helps you regenerate CP and ATP more 
efficiently.  With that, all of these systems are working at the same time; but obviously a given task may strain one more than the others.

#### Training:

Horst talks about a more traditional block peridization, which you can read more about in pretty much all of his books.  I was mostly 
interested in the "in season" or "year round" aspects.  That is, you could conievebly train all three energy systems within a given week and 
still be doing so efficently.  What you can't do (except for the very elite outliers) is train more than one (effectively) in the same day.

Another approach could be honest self assessment and tailoring your training accordingly.  The crux is that you don't want to loose your gains 
in the other areas.  So, it seems like it'd be a good idea to do some maintenance training (maybe once per week) to let the strong facets 
"simmer" while you "boil" the weakness.  

Steve Bechtel seems to think the flatline for most people in a given facet seems to happen around 6 weeks with the lower end being about 4 
weeks.  That sounds about right to me.  Steve has a good point that 4-week cycles are very convenient for how we schedule our lives, but I'd be 
skeptical of anything that I haven't given a solid run for at least 4 weeks.  The more I hear the concept, the more truth there is to it.  
Progress "doesn't come from what you did in the last 10 days, but the last 10 weeks, or 10 years."
