---
layout: post
title: DND5E History of Bombador
excerpt:  "Bombador Balfador character history"
category:
- RPG
tags:
comments: true
---

Balfador Bombador was a bit of an obscure HIll Dwarf.  He 
never seemed to stay in one place for long.  While he was 
generally a kind-hearted spirit, a few specific loves 
seemed to drive his life:  cigars, money, and the thrill of 
the chase.  He had worked in the mountains for some time 
and years of mining have left him a bit hard of hearing, 
however, his eyesight and other sense are very keen.  
Balfador isn’t the typical strength-based dwarf you might 
expect, or the stealth-based rogue either, rather he is 
sharp and perceptive, but by no means subtle.

Balfador enters a saloon in the foothill town of Cellan.  
It is dirty and it appears to be a hotbed of small-time 
crooks, criminals, gamblers, and thieves.  Balfador enters 
the saloon, his hood dripping from the heavy rain, and 
see’s a greeter (commoner) across the room standing next to 
a door.  The common seems sleezy and his sale’s pitch is 
unappealing to Balfador, however, Balfador follows him 
through the door where there is another commoner behind the 
bar and two Commoners playing dice.  Balfador lights a 
cigar and approaches the Commoners, sizing them up; he 
can’t notice anything particularly dangerous or odd about 
them other than a sizeable money pouch on the rear hip of 
the furthest Commoner.  They grit their teeth for a minute 
then decide to try and hustle Balfador in a game of 
Odd-or-Even.  After losing nearly 40 gp and over five turns 
in a row Balfador begins to get frustrated.  He puffs 
fervently on his cigar, calmly draws his shortsword and 
“asks” the far Commoner to empty his coin purse.  The 
protest, so Bobmador rests his cigar on the table and 
attacks.  After a moderate scuffle, the the two Commoners 
are incapacitated and Balfador’s keen perception paid of 
as, along with 10gp, he found several sets of tampered 
dice.  He decides to finish his cigar while resting at the 
bar.  The other two commoners aren’t in the mood to fight.

Balfador talks to the bartender who says his name is 
Elligh, and asks him if there is anything other than booze 
being bought or sold in this tavern.  Elligh dismisses the 
greeter back to his post (as lookout).  “I’m always looking 
to make a profit” say Elligh, who presses a button under 
the bar which causes the liquor shelf to turn 180’ 
revealing an assortment of used (and fairly crude, though 
workable) equipment and tools.  Elligh says, in a swarmy 
voice, “They’re a little blood stained, but you’re shopping 
here, I suspect you’re no foreigner to the criminal life.”  
Balfador is able to disband of much of his unneeded 
equipment and trade it to complete his Breaching Tool set.  
While Balfador is leaving Elligh asks, “Not that it’s any 
of my business, but what are you planning to do with all of 
that?”  Balfador rubs out his cigar and says; “That nobles 
that were robbed last week, I’m going to get their money.”  
“You mean retrieve it for them?”, Elligh asks.  “I said, 
I’m going to find the thieves and take the money from them… 
By the way, I’ll take that studded leather armor you’ve got 
hanging back there.”
