---
layout: post
title: DND5E Days of Future Past Act 4
excerpt: "Act 4 - Black Gives Way to Blue Part III"
category:
- RPG
tags:
comments: true
---

Digoria awakens weary and in pain, but alive nonetheless.  
Known more for her wit than perception, Digoria is able to 
focus at this crucial time of observation.  She is in a 
great hall and Ellion is sitting on a throne across the 
hall.  The room appears empty, but there are doorways on 
the each of the walls adjacent to her.  She also notices a 
shadowy figure standing in one of the doorways.  Her sickle 
is stowed behind Ellion’s throne.  Ellion notices she has 
awoken and compliments her on her strengths as a mage and a 
warrior and concludes that; “It appears chaos has blown at 
the back of strife and in the face of elation on this day.” 
[Referring to Arthugh’s defeat and the apparent triumph of 
evil.]  Digoria notices the shadow in the doorway has moved 
to an unknown location.  Ellion make the torches on the 
walls flicker and identifies that the burning smell in the 
air is the stench of the scorching of souls lost, capture, 
and brought to his dark domain.
Suddenly Phage jumps from the ceiling shadows and attacks 
Digoria, the first slash misses, but Phage begins to 
grapple with Digoria.  Digoria lacks the strength and 
dexterity to resist having her hands and feet shackled.  
Phage stands and Ellion chuckles as Digoria looks in 
disbelief then shouts with rage; “I watched you die hell 
bitch!”  Phage reveals that her mother was a Night Hag and 
with the aid of Heartstones can dissipate into the ethereal 
realm.  Ellion tells Digoria that she can die, or join 
Phage on a “special quest” after “getting warmed up.”  
Having no allegiance to good or evil, and wishing very much 
to stay alive, Digoria obliges the request.  Phage drags 
Digoria to the other doorway and pushes her into it.  A 
trap is triggered, the door slams, and floor falls from 
beneath Digoria.
She splashes into a rushing stream, beneath the castle, but 
is pulled upon a dock by a wretch of a goblin.  The goblin 
is unlocking Digoria’s bindings and grumbling to himself.  
Digoria notices that there is a card table in the corner of 
dock-area.  The goblin hands her a rusty dagger, shouts “No 
magic!”, and points to the door.  Digoria uses her wit and 
asks the goblin if he’d like to see a card trick.  The 
goblin looks away and Digoria stabs him in the eye with the 
dagger.  The goblin tries to nimbly escape, but the wise 
Digoria catches him and finishes him off (though not before 
tripping over the shackles on the floor).  Digoria decides 
to take her time looking around and finds affixed to the 
underside of the table.  She also notices that the channel 
is large enough and the water level low enough that the 
table can pass through and she decides to take her chances 
with the waterway than what might be behind the door the 
goblin was pointing at.  It is dark, but the tiefling can 
see well, however, her perception lacks and she does not 
notice a string that is pulled by the moving of the table.  
A trap springs and the gate at the end of the channel way 
begins to close.  The nimble Digoria springs from the 
floating table and swims with the current narrowly slipping 
through the gate before it closes.
Digoria falls over a short waterfall and finds herself 
swimming in a huge and relatively well lit alcove.  The 
water is a beautiful green and flickers light onto the 
blue-grey roof of the cavern.  This must be the other side 
of the mountain, pointing towards the warm eastern seas [in 
stark contrast to the frigid northwestern seas of Digoria’s 
youth].  Digoria’s perception is much better in the light 
and she spots long rowing boat along the side of the cavern 
and there appears to be a chest in it.  There is another 
door slightly ajar near small outcrop of rock by the boat 
and a cavernous mouth beyond that.  Digoria is still tired 
and weak but swims to the boat and climbs in.  
Digoria finds that the key from under the table unlocks the 
small chest in the boat where she finds an assortment of 
magical components, probably being brought to Ellion by the 
goblin.  She hears the galloping of soft feet and claws 
from behind the door and readies a spell.  The feet stop 
and she goes to investigate the door.  A Worg lunges at 
her.  She gets a few good knife slashes but the Worg lands 
solid bites and pins her down.  Ellion beckons from down 
the hall and the Worg retreats.  Ellion approaches the 
doorway, motions with his hand, and Phage errily and with a 
slithering walk returns Digoria’s sickle and rapier to her.  
Digoria quickly attacks with a thunderwave, knocking (an 
unamused) Ellion down the hall, Phage into the water (which 
she is wounded more by and quite pissed about), and 
stunning the Worg.  She quickly fires magic missiles to 
kill the Worg.  As Phage climbs out of the water, Ellion 
brings Phage to her knees with a witch bolt.  In agony, 
Digoria agrees to go on Ellion’s mission with Phage.
Digoria’s thunderwave has caused a slight avalanche from 
the ceiling.  Ellion fires some magic missiles to scatter 
the debris and break more rocks, a sailing ship is revealed 
upside down on the cavern’s ceiling.  Ellion grabs items 
from the chest, utters a chant, and blows dust into the 
air.  The ship turns and settles in the cove.  The ship is 
manned by 30 skeletons.  Phage boards first, followed by 
Digoria, then Ellion.  Ellion motions for a group of 
skeletons to bring forth a large chest and open it.  Some 
skeletons remove two cloth bundles and bring one to Phage 
and one to Digoria.  Opportunity has it that Digoria begins 
to unwrap the bundle, a small wood box falls out.  She 
opens it to find that there is a Ring of Water Walking in 
it.  Ellion makes a comment about a “Captain needing to 
stay afloat.”  Digoria smiles smugly and sticks her tongue 
out at Phage who hisses back and postures at Digoria.  
Phage then rips into her bundle, finding a Ring of Warmth 
strewn on a chain to wear on one’s neck.  Ellion’s comment 
is that a “First Mate always needs to keep the captain in 
check.”  A mischievous smile spreads across Phage’s face.  
Phage scraps the rest of the cloth to find a pair of 
Gauntlets of Ogre Power, specially fitted for her claws.  
Lastly Digoria unwraps a Mempo of Twilight.  Ellion states 
that wearing that particular Water Walker Ring grants the 
loyalty of The Entropy Tide (his ship) and but cautions 
that since the ship was “used to wage wars between realms 
centuries ago”, it “has been know to tangle and warp the 
minds of its crew and passengers.”  Ellion then bids the 
“Sisters of Chaos” to sail to the Northeastern Highlands to 
rally his army to bring chaos and disorder to mountainous 
villages.  “They’ve grown soft and comfortable and need 
stirring” he says.

[ice rapier / short sword]
[fire ogre gauntlets]
[ocean cavern pic]

