---
layout: post
title: DND5E Days of Future Past Act 4
excerpt: "Act 4 - Black Gives Way to Blue Part II"
category:
- RPG
tags:
comments: true
---

Weeks lead to months and months bled into years as Digoria 
honed her magic and combat skills with Arthugh.  While she 
still had not learned to use a sword, she had become quite 
proficient with her, now signature, sickle.  The sickle’s 
shaft was Hendurn’s quarterstaff, the blade and rear 
protrusion from her large dragontooth dagger, the two 
affixed with the skull Marin and Heley all those years ago, 
and adorned with the white owl feathers.  The time had 
come, Arthugh said, for the two of them to venture to the 
eas, where the world blurred swamp and mountain, rock and 
ash.  They must, he said, because he had sense and evil 
presence lurking there and growing stronger day by day.
Arthugh leads the journey over several days, apparently 
being quite familiar with the way and where they’re going.  
The air begins to smell like death and destruction, but not 
like the vile rotting of the swamps, a sterile ash and 
cinder fragrance.  In the distance there is a castle 
nestled into tall rocky face.  Strangely enough, it seems 
as though it is in such a location where daylight never 
touches.  LIfe never reaches there.
Upon arrival the gates to the castle are locked.  There is 
some sort of open drainage system below.  “There” Arthugh 
says, “that will be our point of entry.”  Digoria leads the 
way, her Darkvision coming in handy.  The burnt smell of 
death and smoldering debris is getting heavier, but there 
isn’t even the slightest sign of flames or fire.  The 
closest thing to life is a small stream draining through 
these eerie catacombs.  When Digoria and Arthugh come to a 
large open cavern, the stream is heavier and faster, but 
stays to one side of the cavern.  There is also a small 
window in the far corner which provides a subtle light to 
the room.  Standing in the middle, as if on stage, awaits a 
Vampire Spawn tapping her toe talons and examining her 
claws.  She introduces herself as Phage Phage and says; 
“The master told me you would come.  I only hope this will 
be as sporting as he promised.”  Looking at Digoria, Phage 
says; “You?  You’re the best old Arthugh could bring?  A 
piece of mountainous driftwood flushed through the sea and 
forest!’
Arthugh steps forthe, “Enough vile wretch!” and immediately 
attacks.  Phage takes a heavy wound, but quickly scampers 
up a wall into the shadows.  Digoria is caught off guard by 
the creature’s tenacity and surprise attacked.  Arthugh 
lands a couple more hearty blows, but the young vampiress 
has immense stamina, far more than the weary (and a bit 
rusty) sage.  A figure steps from the opposing entrance of 
the Cavern.  It is the presence Arthugh has been sensing 
all these years;  Ellion Stryfe, the Drow Mage.
Arthugh is a bit enamoured by Ellion’s presence which 
affords Phage a surprise attack.  She is fierce and 
tenacious, but a bit clumsy and reckless.  Digoria lands a 
Chromatic Orb square in Phage’s back, drawing her 
attention.  Arthugh prepares to fire again, but is severely 
wounded from a whimsical magic missile from Ellion who 
appears to watching the two prodigies battle for 
entertainment.  Digoria is evasive enough to avoid being 
his again and knocks Phage into the stream pool with a 
Thunderwave attack.  Ellion then sprays a Cloudkill which 
begins to engulf Arthugh.  Rather than attack his nemesis, 
Arthugh fires a final ice storm to keep Phage in the water, 
severely wounding her and ceasing her healing abilities.  
Alas, Arthugh dies and a furious and vengeful Digoria waits 
for the seething Phage to charge and obliterates her with 
Magic Missile; spraying a large area with pestilent 
viscera, but a black sulfurous vapor rises and escapes.  
Phage is nowhere to be seen.  Ellion’s cloud spreads and 
Digoria colapses on the ground.  The last thing she 
remembers is seeing what appeared to be a smile on Ellion’s 
face and then the feeling of being carried in the direction 
of the opposing corridor.

[phage picture]
[drow mage picture]
