---
layout: post
title: DND5E History of Phage
excerpt: "Phage Elung character history - The Massacre of Abenel"
category:
- RPG
tags:
comments: true
---

### The Massacre of Abenel

*~ 10 years before present day*

Phage Elung came down from the hills with every intention of bringing hell 
and horror to the (mostly) calm and quiet people of Abenel.  Phage tries 
to trick two guards outside the town gate to let her under the guise of 
being a weary traveler.  They are not fooled and attack.  Phage makes 
short work of them and rips the lock of the gate with the aid of her 
Gauntlets of Ogre Power.

Four unfortunate commoners are stunned by the vampire spawn standing 
before them.  Two of them are killed before they can utter a sound.  The 
second to make feeble attempts to attack but don’t last very long against 
the fierce Phage.  Two Guards charge at Phage from down the street.  A 
third ambushes her from an alley.  There are some decent hits landed, but 
Phage insta-kills one with a fierce bite, bathing all parties in blood.  
The remaining two guards present some resistance, but they cannot match 
the stamina of Phage’s regenerative prowess.

Near the center of the town two Knights are protecting the town’s Noble.  
There are a lot of sloppy and deflected hits landed.  The Knights’ tough 
armor is resistant to Phage’s claws.   Phage is covered in grievous wounds 
but heals quickly.  Eventually Phage tires of not getting through the 
Knights’ armor, grapples with one, picks him up, and throws him against a 
brick wall.  Phage tries to throw a medium cart at the other Knight, but 
the wheel breaks off and she throws that instead.  The first Knight 
charges back since the second hasn’t landed a single hit yet.  However, 
critical hit from a bite finds the first Knight having his head ripped 
off.  

At the gory scene of his comrade's death, the second Knight enters a rage 
and lands several devastating blows nearly bringing Phage to half life.  
However, Phage is able to grapple with and throw the second Knight.  He is 
stunned and misses on his next few attacks.  Phage is calmly able to pick 
up the nearby cart and smashes it over the second Knight.  Phage initially 
has no intention of killing the Noble, rather she wants to taste his 
terror and leave him to bask in the desecration of his people.  However, 
the Noble’s constitution checks to Phage’s intimidating charisma and he 
stands proud for his people.  He provides little resistance to a single 
bite from Phage.

Shortly after, the remaining residents of Abenel come out to the streets 
since the ruckus has settled.  They gaze upon a blood bath and look out to 
their harbor and notice a ship and nearing their shore, a storm mage 
walking on water.

